 Hall Of Fame 

I2P is a project made completely by spare time enthusiasts. But a big
project like I2P is not made from software alone, several servers,
domain registrations, and coffees need to be paid to get a great result.
People all over the world donated to I2P reach the state it is in
currently. Here we do track those who gave us a name to be published in
a I2P hall of fame.

Big thanks go to the following people who have donated to I2P!

If you have made a donation, please send an email to
[echelon](mailto:) with your name or nick (and
optionally homepage) so we can list you here.

The unsorted list of I2P donors in 15 years of I2P history, starting
March 2004 til March 2019.

Nathan Lee Alex anonimal JJE JULLIAN David Leonardo pcboy Stian Berger
susbarbatus ComeIn3s TimeTravelDuck Dr.Wax foebrian Scott NaEaP
DuckDuckGo donation [FOSS2014](https://duck.co/blog/foss2014)\
Billionaire Eol ratsmack bikenstrings David Julian giv first-leon
bandar-log alu-anon maxkoda DJ Eugene Lautrec Evgeny Ilin dJavid84fr
Igor Gushchin woodchips Mozartito bv-falcon h2ik magma An anonymous
secret society society@mail.i2p psychonaut maxkoda.i2p uglic vention
Daniel Liabeuf ReturningNovice R.Schwabe bernerbaer neutron russian
donor echelon arne bab G.Klaus Cendre M.Hilbig Gilgongo Amiga4000 DVT
bar Peter athena postman aum Aurimas Fiseras Doubtful salmon Chris Wong
Zlatin Balevsky Dale Jefferson David Hjelm Marcus Felker Sebastian
Spaeth Martin Stares Nico Zimmerman jnymo Elliot Turner modulus Salvador
Petit Philip Bock cervantes nickster protokol Jeff Teitel eco wilde bla
duck


