==================================================
{% trans -%}USENIX FOCI Trip Report{%- endtrans %}
==================================================

.. meta::
   :author: sadie
   :date: 2019-08-30
   :category: conferences
   :excerpt: {% trans %}USENIX FOCI Trip Report{% endtrans %}

{% trans -%}USENIX FOCI Trip Report{%- endtrans %}
==================================================

{% trans -%}
Over the past year I have had the good fortune to participate in the research
Nguyen Phong Hoang from Stony Brook University has been doing regarding I2P
censorship. The infrastructure used for this research provided numerous and
geographically diverse vantage points, and also the ability to conduct in-depth
measurements across all levels of the network stack. I2P services which were
measured for availability included official homepage, mirror site, reseed
servers and active relays.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
The presentation on Tuesday went very well, and Phong was very busy afterwards
answering questions about his work. I was busy too answering questions about
I2P and what it does. The new stickers featuring the updated logo by Ura Design
got rave reviews! It was a very positive experience and I will be looking
forward to continuing to work with Phong and monitoring I2P censorship. I would
encourage anyone who has encountered blocking, or has had success using I2P to
communicate in restricted environments to reach out if you can. I2P is
currently working on new solutions to circumvent internet blocking. Having met
people this year who have given me first hand accounts of the effects of
censorship and the need to stay connected, makes the need for I2P to be more
resilient where it needs to be and for the team to be creating guides for using
I2P in these situations.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
I will be putting together better resources for researchers interested in I2P,
as well.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
I also had the good fortune to spend time with Mhatta, who is an I2P
contributor, and to make connections for future funding. A huge thank you to
the community builders I met in Tunis who I met again and who are offering so
much support to the project. This has been an exciting year so far, and I2P has
so much work to do. Please consider donating your time or funding the project
as it needs to scale quickly to new challenges.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
If you have an opportunity to, you can read the full report Measuring I2P
Censorship at a Global Scale here
https://www.usenix.org/conference/foci19/presentation/hoang
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
Another great workshop in the measurements workshop was On the Importance of
Encrypted-SNI (ESNI) to Censorship Circumvention
https://www.usenix.org/conference/foci19/presentation/chai
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
There are so many great workshops that I attended - anyone who would like too
can access the program and related materials here:
https://www.usenix.org/conference/foci19/workshop-program
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
I will be attending Our Networks in Toronto next month https://ournetworks.ca/
- and so should you! The program can be viewed here
https://ournetworks.ca/program/
{%- endtrans %}



Sadie
