 Tunnel
Discussion July 2019
0.9.41 Note:
This document contains older information about alternatives to the
current tunnel implementation in I2P, and speculation on future
possibilities. For current information see [the tunnel
page]().

That page documents the current tunnel build implementation as of
release 0.6.1.10. The older tunnel build method, used prior to release
0.6.1.10, is documented on [the old tunnel
page]().

### Configuration Alternatives {#config}

Beyond their length, there may be additional configurable parameters for
each tunnel that can be used, such as a throttle on the frequency of
messages delivered, how padding should be used, how long a tunnel should
be in operation, whether to inject chaff messages, and what, if any,
batching strategies should be employed. None of these are currently
implemented.

### [Padding Alternatives]{#tunnel.padding}

Several tunnel padding strategies are possible, each with their own
merits:

- No padding
- Padding to a random size
- Padding to a fixed size
- Padding to the closest KB
- Padding to the closest exponential size (2\^n bytes)

These padding strategies can be used on a variety of levels, addressing
the exposure of message size information to different adversaries. After
gathering and reviewing some
[statistics](http://web.archive.org/web/20050413140457/http://dev.i2p.net/~jrandom/messageSizes/)
from the 0.4 network, as well as exploring the anonymity tradeoffs,
we\'re starting with a fixed tunnel message size of 1024 bytes. Within
this however, the fragmented messages themselves are not padded by the
tunnel at all (though for end to end messages, they may be padded as
part of the garlic wrapping).

### [Fragmentation Alternatives]{#tunnel.fragmentation}

To prevent adversaries from tagging the messages along the path by
adjusting the message size, all tunnel messages are a fixed 1024 bytes
in size. To accommodate larger I2NP messages as well as to support
smaller ones more efficiently, the gateway splits up the larger I2NP
messages into fragments contained within each tunnel message. The
endpoint will attempt to rebuild the I2NP message from the fragments for
a short period of time, but will discard them as necessary.

Routers have a lot of leeway as to how the fragments are arranged,
whether they are stuffed inefficiently as discrete units, batched for a
brief period to fit more payload into the 1024 byte tunnel messages, or
opportunistically padded with other messages that the gateway wanted to
send out.

### [More Alternatives]{#tunnel.alternatives}

#### [Adjust tunnel processing midstream]{#tunnel.reroute}

While the simple tunnel routing algorithm should be sufficient for most
cases, there are three alternatives that can be explored:

- Have a peer other than the endpoint temporarily act as the
 termination point for a tunnel by adjusting the encryption used at
 the gateway to give them the plaintext of the preprocessed I2NP
 messages. Each peer could check to see whether they had the
 plaintext, processing the message when received as if they did.
- Allow routers participating in a tunnel to remix the message before
 forwarding it on - bouncing it through one of that peer\'s own
 outbound tunnels, bearing instructions for delivery to the next hop.
- Implement code for the tunnel creator to redefine a peer\'s \"next
 hop\" in the tunnel, allowing further dynamic redirection.

#### [Use bidirectional tunnels]{#tunnel.bidirectional}

The current strategy of using two separate tunnels for inbound and
outbound communication is not the only technique available, and it does
have anonymity implications. On the positive side, by using separate
tunnels it lessens the traffic data exposed for analysis to participants
in a tunnel - for instance, peers in an outbound tunnel from a web
browser would only see the traffic of an HTTP GET, while the peers in an
inbound tunnel would see the payload delivered along the tunnel. With
bidirectional tunnels, all participants would have access to the fact
that e.g. 1KB was sent in one direction, then 100KB in the other. On the
negative side, using unidirectional tunnels means that there are two
sets of peers which need to be profiled and accounted for, and
additional care must be taken to address the increased speed of
predecessor attacks. The tunnel pooling and building process outlined
below should minimize the worries of the predecessor attack, though if
it were desired, it wouldn\'t be much trouble to build both the inbound
and outbound tunnels along the same peers.

#### [Backchannel communication]{#tunnel.backchannel}

At the moment, the IV values used are random values. However, it is
possible for that 16 byte value to be used to send control messages from
the gateway to the endpoint, or on outbound tunnels, from the gateway to
any of the peers. The inbound gateway could encode certain values in the
IV once, which the endpoint would be able to recover (since it knows the
endpoint is also the creator). For outbound tunnels, the creator could
deliver certain values to the participants during the tunnel creation
(e.g. \"if you see 0x0 as the IV, that means X\", \"0x1 means Y\", etc).
Since the gateway on the outbound tunnel is also the creator, they can
build a IV so that any of the peers will receive the correct value. The
tunnel creator could even give the inbound tunnel gateway a series of IV
values which that gateway could use to communicate with individual
participants exactly one time (though this would have issues regarding
collusion detection)

This technique could later be used deliver message mid stream, or to
allow the inbound gateway to tell the endpoint that it is being DoS\'ed
or otherwise soon to fail. At the moment, there are no plans to exploit
this backchannel.

#### [Variable size tunnel messages]{#tunnel.variablesize}

While the transport layer may have its own fixed or variable message
size, using its own fragmentation, the tunnel layer may instead use
variable size tunnel messages. The difference is an issue of threat
models - a fixed size at the transport layer helps reduce the
information exposed to external adversaries (though overall flow
analysis still works), but for internal adversaries (aka tunnel
participants) the message size is exposed. Fixed size tunnel messages
help reduce the information exposed to tunnel participants, but does not
hide the information exposed to tunnel endpoints and gateways. Fixed
size end to end messages hide the information exposed to all peers in
the network.

As always, its a question of who I2P is trying to protect against.
Variable sized tunnel messages are dangerous, as they allow participants
to use the message size itself as a backchannel to other participants -
e.g. if you see a 1337 byte message, you\'re on the same tunnel as
another colluding peer. Even with a fixed set of allowable sizes (1024,
2048, 4096, etc), that backchannel still exists as peers could use the
frequency of each size as the carrier (e.g. two 1024 byte messages
followed by an 8192). Smaller messages do incur the overhead of the
headers (IV, tunnel ID, hash portion, etc), but larger fixed size
messages either increase latency (due to batching) or dramatically
increase overhead (due to padding). Fragmentation helps amortize the
overhead, at the cost of potential message loss due to lost fragments.

Timing attacks are also relevant when reviewing the effectiveness of
fixed size messages, though they require a substantial view of network
activity patterns to be effective. Excessive artificial delays in the
tunnel will be detected by the tunnel\'s creator, due to periodic
testing, causing that entire tunnel to be scrapped and the profiles for
peers within it to be adjusted.

### [Alternatives]{#tunnel.building.alternatives}

Reference: [Hashing it out in
Public](http://www-users.cs.umn.edu/~hopper/hashing_it_out.pdf)

#### Old tunnel build method {#tunnel.building.old}

The old tunnel build method, used prior to release 0.6.1.10, is
documented on [the old tunnel
page]().
This was an \"all at once\" or \"parallel\" method, where messages were
sent in parallel to each of the participants.

#### [One-Shot Telescopic building]{#tunnel.building.telescoping}

NOTE: This is the current method.

One question that arose regarding the use of the exploratory tunnels for
sending and receiving tunnel creation messages is how that impacts the
tunnel\'s vulnerability to predecessor attacks. While the endpoints and
gateways of those tunnels will be randomly distributed across the
network (perhaps even including the tunnel creator in that set), another
alternative is to use the tunnel pathways themselves to pass along the
request and response, as is done in [Tor](https://www.torproject.org/).
This, however, may lead to leaks during tunnel creation, allowing peers
to discover how many hops there are later on in the tunnel by monitoring
the timing or [packet
count](http://dev.i2p.net/pipermail/2005-October/001057.html) as the
tunnel is built.

#### [\"Interactive\" Telescopic building]{#tunnel.building.telescoping}

Build the hops one at a time with a message through the existing part of
the tunnel for each. Has major issues as the peers can count the
messages to determine their location in the tunnel.

#### [Non-exploratory tunnels for management]{#tunnel.building.nonexploratory}

A second alternative to the tunnel building process is to give the
router an additional set of non-exploratory inbound and outbound pools,
using those for the tunnel request and response. Assuming the router has
a well integrated view of the network, this should not be necessary, but
if the router was partitioned in some way, using non-exploratory pools
for tunnel management would reduce the leakage of information about what
peers are in the router\'s partition.

#### [Exploratory request delivery]{#tunnel.building.exploratory}

A third alternative, used until I2P 0.6.1.10, garlic encrypts individual
tunnel request messages and delivers them to the hops individually,
transmitting them through exploratory tunnels with their reply coming
back in a separate exploratory tunnel. This strategy has been dropped in
favor of the one outlined above.

#### More History and Discussion {#history}

Before the introduction of the Variable Tunnel Build Message, there were
at least two problems:

1. The size of the messages (caused by an 8-hop maximum, when the
 typical tunnel length is 2 or 3 hops\... and current research
 indicates that more than 3 hops does not enhance anonymity);
2. The high build failure rate, especially for long (and exploratory)
 tunnels, since all hops must agree or the tunnel is discarded.

The VTBM has fixed #1 and improved #2.

Welterde has proposed modifications to the parallel method to allow for
reconfiguration. Sponge has proposed using \'tokens\' of some sort.

Any students of tunnel building must study the historical record leading
up to the current method, especially the various anonymity
vulnerabilities that may exist in various methods. The mail archives
from October 2005 at
[zzz.i2p](http:///archive/2005-10/)
are particularly helpful. As stated on [the tunnel creation
specification](),
the current strategy came about during a discussion on the I2P mailing
list between Michael Rogers, Matthew Toseland (toad), and jrandom
regarding the predecessor attack.
See:[Summary](http://zzz.i2p/archive/2005-10/msg00138.html) and
[Reasoning](http://zzz.i2p/archive/2005-10/msg00129.html).

The build changes in 0.6.1.10, released February 2006, were the last
incompatible change in i2p; i.e., all releases since 0.6.1.10 are
backward compatible. Any tunnel build change would cause a similar
\'flag day\', unless we implemented code so that the build originator
would only use the new method if all participants (and build/reply
endpoints/gateways) supported it.

#### [Peer ordering alternatives]{#ordering}

A less strict ordering is also possible, assuring that while the hop
after A may be B, B may never be before A. Other configuration options
include the ability for just the inbound tunnel gateways and outbound
tunnel endpoints to be fixed, or rotated on an MTBF rate.

## [Mixing/batching]{#tunnel.mixing}

What strategies should be used at the gateway and at each hop for
delaying, reordering, rerouting, or padding messages? To what extent
should this be done automatically, how much should be configured as a
per tunnel or per hop setting, and how should the tunnel\'s creator (and
in turn, user) control this operation? All of this is left as unknown,
to be worked out for [I2P
3.0](#v3.0)


