::: document
::: {#trans .section}
# {% trans -%}
:::

::: {#release .section}
# 0.9.26 Release

{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%} I2P is now a proposed site on Stack Exchange! Please
[commit to using
it](https://area51.stackexchange.com/proposals/99297/i2p){.reference
.external} so the beta phase can begin. {%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%} Update details {%- endtrans %} ==============

{% trans -%} 0.9.26 contains a major upgrade to our native crypto
library, a new addressbook subscription protocol with signatures, and
major improvements to the Debian/Ubuntu packaging. {%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%} For crypto, we have upgraded to GMP 6.0.0, and added
support for newer processors, which will speed up crypto operations
considerably. Also, we are now using constant-time GMP functions to
prevent side-channel attacks. For caution, the GMP changes are enabled
for new installs and Debian/Ubuntu builds only; we will include them for
in-net updates in the 0.9.27 release. {%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%} For Debian/Ubuntu builds, we have added dependencies on
several packages, including Jetty 8 and geoip, and removed the
equivalent bundled code. {%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%} There\'s a collection of bug fixes also, including a fix
for a timer bug that caused instability and performance degradations
over time. {%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%} As usual, we recommend that you update to this release. The
best way to maintain security and help the network is to run the latest
release. {%- endtrans %}

**RELEASE DETAILS**

**Changes**

-   GMP 6.0.0 and jbigi/jcpuid native libraries, enabling significant
    speedups on newer architectures, and constant-time crypto operations
    (new installs and Debian/Ubuntu builds only, will include in the
    updates in the next release, 0.9.27)
-   Addressbook subscription protocol, enabling signed addressbook
    updates
-   Generate signed authentication strings for subscriptions in
    i2ptunnel
-   Enhance hosts blockfile format to allow for multiple destinations
    per entry
-   Use system GeoIP database when available
-   Remove systray4j.jar from non-Windows installers and Debian/Ubuntu
    packages
-   Remove multiple external libraries from Debian/Ubuntu builds, and
    add dependencies on: geoip-database, gettext-base, libgetopt-java,
    libjetty8-java, libservlet3.0-java, glassfish-javaee
-   Store CRLs received in the news feed, to distribute key revocations
    when necessary
-   Enhancements to the desktopgui system tray feature, to be enabled by
    default in next release
-   Wrapper 3.5.29 (new non-Windows installs only)

**Bug Fixes**

-   Fix periodic timers not firing after a backwards OS clock shift,
    which caused widespread instability and gradual deterioration
-   Fix wrapper on FreeBSD 10 (new installs only, see ticket #1118 for
    manual fix)
-   Fix NPE on hostname lookup failure in SOCKS 4a
-   Fix setting JAVA_HOME on Mac OS X (new installs only, see ticket
    #1783 for manual fix)
-   Fix UTF-8 console passwords, and partial fix for usernames
-   Fix router family configuration form
-   Fix NTP sending random data in some fields that should be zero

**Other**

-   More verification of received NTP packets
-   Rework resource bundle generation for 20x speedup in build time
    (requires gettext version 0.19)
-   Translation updates
-   Update GeoIP data (new installs and PPA only)

[Full list of fixed
bugs](http://%7B%7Bi2pconv('trac.i2p2.i2p')%7D%7D/query?resolution=fixed&milestone=0.9.26){.reference
.external}

**SHA256 Checksums:**

``` literal-block
a8d8d2f653ebd996aa044edd0ac8f8b9cd9e5b740225f3cf547d252b380d5e38  i2pinstall_0.9.26_windows.exe
563eb6f2cb9220c380190e90290cd154da3f30b4fa96a212a80e4bbc7a8fd44f  i2pinstall_0.9.26.jar
49fbaea7f4d5ea0606de68ebb270fc3d4380631ecfd5c9ad82ed9356e29df937  i2psource_0.9.26.tar.bz2
23be34662f29faea6831ad041cbc2622f7914baeabceea8b698dac11ddac3bb2  i2pupdate_0.9.26.zip
646d2e4fcb1d860b8e9970596fa51336cc3d26108f6e78fe0f4ed7fe1c2b29e9  i2pupdate.su3
```
:::
:::
