 Managed Clients February 2014 0.9.11 

## Overzicht

Clients may be started directly by the router when they are listed in
the [clients.config]() file. These clients
may be \"managed\" or \"unmanaged\". This is handled by the
ClientAppManager. Additionally, managed or unmanaged clients may
register with the ClientAppManager so that other clients may retrieve a
reference to them. There is also a simple Port Mapper facility for
clients to register an internal port that other clients may look up.

## Managed Clients

As of release 0.9.4, the router supports managed clients. Managed
clients are instantiated and started by the ClientAppManager. The
ClientAppManager maintains a reference to the client and receives
updates on the client\'s state. Managed clients are preferred, as it is
much easier to implement state tracking and to start and stop a client.
It also is much easier to avoid static references in the client code
which could lead to excessive memory usage after a client is stopped.
Managed clients may be started and stopped by the user in the router
console, and are stopped at router shutdown.

Managed clients implement either the net.i2p.app.ClientApp or
net.i2p.router.app.RouterApp interface. Clients implementing the
ClientApp interface must provide the following constructor:

 public MyClientApp(I2PAppContext context, ClientAppManager listener, String[] args)

Clients implementing the RouterApp interface must provide the following
constructor:

 public MyClientApp(RouterContext context, ClientAppManager listener, String[] args)

The arguments provided are specified in the clients.config file.

## Unmanaged Clients

If the main class specified in the clients.config file does not
implement a managed interface, it will be started with main() with the
arguments specified, and stopped with main() with the arguments
specified. The router does not maintain a reference, since all
interactions are via the static main() method. The console cannot
provide accurate state information to the user.

## Registered Clients

Clients, whether managed or unmanaged, may register with the
ClientAppManager so that other clients may retrieve a reference to them.
Registration is by name. Known registered clients are:

 console, i2ptunnel, Jetty, outproxy, update

## Port Mapper

The router also provides a simple mechanism for clients to find an
internal socket service, such as the HTTP proxy. This is provided by the
Port Mapper. Registration is by name. Clients that register generally
provide an internal emulated socket on that port.


